pozcare
 A comprehensive 9uideio
 ‘I
 h ' r +
pozcare
WhatIsGroup ”
 Health Insurance?
 Group health insurance orcorporate health insurance plans provide health
 insurance coverage tothe employees ofan organization. When employees
 undergo any medical expense, the insurance policy covers it. And the group
 health insurance premiums aregenerally paid by the company. Companies
 can also include dependents oftheemployees in the policy.
 How doesemployeehealt
 insuranceworlt?
 Employee health insurance isa highly customizable and negotiable
 insurance policy. There aremultiple things to consider while determining
 the policy coverage toensure your employees havea good insurance
 experience.
 Employers buy the group
 health insurance from
 insurers/agents/brokers. HRs
 talk to multiple insurers, state
 their requirements and get
 quotes. In this process, the
 HRs tell the insurers about
 the employee's strengths and
 what type ofcoverage they
 want. Based on that, insurers
 give quotations.
 Employers pay the premium and buy
 theinsurance policy that covers all
 their employees for1 year.
 Employees gettheir health insurance
 cards with the policy number. They
 can usethat to claim their medical
 expenses when they undergo any
 treatment or hospitalization.
 pozcare
Typesofgroup healthinsurance
 This is one of the common questions we answer especially when it isa
 first-time policy buyer. There are3 types ofpolicies in group health
 insurance. They are,
 1. Employee-only policy
 In this, the employer only
 covers the employee and has
 no involvement in the employee's
 family. The employer can
 cover all employees including
 contractual employees.
 3. Employee, spouse,
 children, parents policy
 Inthis case, the employer
 covers the employee, their
 spouse, children and two parents
 or in-laws. The employee can
 choose between in-laws and
 parents.
 2. Employee, spouse and
 children policy
 In this case, the employer covers
 the employee, their spouse and their
 two children are covered. Anything
 more than two children, if added to
 thepolicy naturally increases the
 cost ofthe policy.
 With new laws coming into the
 picture by the Indian Government,
 the definition of spouse is now
 changing totheterm partner.
 There area lot of companies that
 are friendly toward the LGBTQ+
 community and want toprovide
 insurance to their partner, which
 can also be included in this policy.
 re
Whatiscovered
 in9rouphealth
 insurance?
 The coverage ofgroup health insurance depends on theterms and
 conditions of your policy. Some ofthecommon inclusions are
Coverage forpre-existing
 diseases from day1
 Right from day 1, all your pre-existing
 diseases are covered under your group
 health insurance policy.
 Domiciliary and daycare
 expenses
 Domiciliary expenses rise when the
 patient undergoes treatment athome.
 Ambulance charges
 With respect to the insurance policy,
 ambulance charges arealso covered.
 Maternity coverage
 Maternity coverage includes expenses
 fornormal and cesarean deliveries up
 to the sum insured as per the policy.
 Daycare on theother hand includes the
 expenses that arise on hospitalization
 for less than 24 hours. These two
 expenses arecovered under thegroup
 health insurance policy.
 In-patient department
 expenses
 These areall the in-patient expenses
 that are covered under the group
 health insurance policy. For eg:
 childbirth,a serious illness that needs
 constant monitoring, major surgery, etc.
 Pre and post-hospitalization
 Pre and post-hospitalization expenses
 arecovered which include various tests
 and Diagnosis carried out pre and post
treatment.
 pozcare
 Covid-19 coverage
 All hospitalization expenses related to
 covid-19 are covered by your group
 health insurance policy.
DiPerence beMeengrouphealth
 insuranceandindividualhealth
 insurance coverage
 Here isa comparison table betweena group health insurance policy and an
 individual health insurance policy based on certain key factors.
 Factor
 Policy buyer
 Waiting period
 Premium
 deduction
 COSt
 Group Insurance
 Individual Insurance
 Employer
 Covered from Day1
 From theemployee's salary
 Comparatively cheaper as the risk
 is spread among theemployees
 Individual
 15 days to4 years (for specific
 medical conditions)
 Coverage
 Duration
 Bonus Claims
 Medical checkups
 Customizable and decided by
 the employer
 1 year but only valid until the
 employee stays in the company
 No bonus claims
 No need fora medical check-up
 before buying
 Taxdeductions
 Covid cover
 Available under 80D
 Covered from Day1
 Policyholder makes payment on
 a monthly orannual basis as per
 policy terms and conditions
 Higher premium
 Customizable and decided by the
 policyholder
 The policyholder can decide the
 duration of the policy.
 If you
 don't make claims ina
 year, you are eligible fora claim
 bonus. Can get discounted price
 during renewal.
 A medical checkup is mandatory
 before buying.
 Available under 80D
 15 days waiting period
 pozcare
Howarepremiumscalculated
 for9rouphealthinsurance?
 The premium paid towards the group health insurance policy directly depends
 on therisks covered. Higher the risks, the higher the annual premium. Apart
 from this, there are several other factors that determine the premium for
 group health insurance.
 Below mentioned isa list of major factors that can influence the premium paid
 by the employer tothe insurance company.
 The typeofplan you choose
 Ina group health 1 E-Employee only
 insurance plan,
 you have the 2 ESC-Employee, spouseand children
 option of choosing EsC- Employee, spouse, children, parents orin-laws
 The premium increases according tothe increase in the dependent members.
 Forinstance, the premium paid towards the ESCP plan will be higher than the E-only
 plan as there are fewer lives covered.
 The sum insured
 The sum insured is the maximum amount theinsurer will pay the policyholder in
 case ofany unforeseen events.You can choose this based on thetype ofhospital
 your employees choose, the number ofdependents covered, etc. You can choose
 thesum insured from as low as Rs 10,00,000 ormore.
 pozcare
Nature ofjob
 The type ofjob also influences the premium foryour corporate health insurance
 policy. If the health risk associated with your job is high, then the premiums you pay
 towards the plan may also increase.
 Add-onsopted
 The concept ofhealth insurance is changing dynamically. Today companies want
 tooffer something that not only pays your medical bills but also covers other
 health-related expenses. Now, these benefits are add-ons in an insurance policy.
 You can choose additions to your group health insurance plan like maternity
 insurance, health and wellness programs, dental insurance, doctor consultations,
 room rent capping, and many more. Your premiums increase based on theadd
ons you choose.
 Claim history
 If you
 are
 purchasing group health insurance forthe first time foryour organization,
 then you need notworry about this. However, if you are not new to purchasinga
 group health insurance plan foryour team, then your insurer may look atthe claim
 history you had in the past to decide your premium.
 In case, you havea higher number ofclaims raised in the previous financial year,
 then it may
 lead to slightly higher premiums forthenext financial year.
 Average age ofemployees
 According tothe insurer, as the age increases, the medical risks associated with
 the employees go up.
 So your insurance company raises the premium tocompensate fortherisks.
 According tothis,a company witha younger workforce where theaverage age of
 employees is between 20 to30 may pay lesser premiums than the ones with an
 average age of45.
 @ pozcare
Comparegroup
 health insurance
 How to choosethebestgroup
 health insurance foremployees?
 There aremore than 20 health insurance companies in India and all of them
 offer varied types ofgroup mediclaim insurance. So it becomes difficult to
 compare and select one.
 Comparing policies can
 help you understand
 what is possible in your
 budget
 Comparing allows you
 to be aware ofthe
 benchmark policy
 When youareaware,
 you will be able to
 negotiate and get the
 best coverage and
 pricing
 Our insurance experts say that pricing shouldn't be the only deciding factor
 when it comes togroup medical cover. The ultimate focus should be on
 providing the best employee insurance experience
 Here area few factors you can use to compare group medical policies. These
 6 arethesignificant parameters you would need tocompare two group
 health insurance policies.
 Coverageand sum-insured
 Health insurance costs are inflating at the rate of 17-20% annually. You have to
 consider the coverage and sum insured that is offered in the market and match it.
 Offeringa sum insured of1 to2 lakhs won't make thecutthese days. The average
 is3
 to 5 lakhs.
 You have tooffer extensive coverage with reasonable sub-limits or no sub—limits,
 no copay, maternity cover, and also free doctor consultations.
 @ pozcare
Claim settlement ratio
 Claim settlement ratio determines how many claims are settled by the insurer
 yearly. Always go fora company that hasa good claim settlement ratio.A claim
 settlement ratio above 80% is good.
 The claim settlement ratio directly impacts your claim experience. So,a good claim
 settlement ratio indicatesa high chance ofyour group mediclaim policy claim
 being settled.
 Claim Settlement Ratio (CSR) = Claims settled ina year/Claims received ina year* 100
 TPA associated
 Group health Insurance Third Party Administrator or TPA are the ones who will help
 you with the claims during the time of hospitalization. They arethemiddlemen
 between you and theinsurer. They help you with filing, tracking claims and getting
 the right information regarding your policy.
 In some cases, insurers don't work with TPA and instead have an in-house claim
 settlement department. So, always check if the plan has an external TPA or an
 in-house TPA forclaim settlements
 Networkhospitals
 Network hospitals are the hospitals that are tied up with the insurer for cashless
 claims. The more thenumber ofhospitals, the better foryour employees. Cashless
 claims enablea seamless and time-efficient claims process. And cashless claims
 are only possible in network hospitals.
 pozcare
Incurred claim ratio
 Incurred Claim Ratio or ICR is one of the factors that determine the credibility of an
 insurance company andis also an important factor to check before comparing two
 health insurance companies.
 While taking Incurred Claim Ratio into account, check fortheaverage Incurred
 Claim Ratio of all health insurance companies and go fortheone that is closest to
 this average.
 Incurred claim ratio is calculated as
 Incurred claim ratio or ICR = Amount settled as claims/Amount collected as premiums
 Customerexperience
 pozcare
Consult, compareandinsure
 At Pazcare, we offeryoua consulting
 approach foryour group health insurance
 policy. Our insurance experts get in touch with
 you to better understand your requirements for
 the employee insurance policy.
 Comparethequotes from thetop10+
 insurers and choosetheplan which best
 suits your requirements. You don't have to
 contact insurers and wait fortheir quote and
 offerings. We will get it for you within 24 hours
 after you tell us your requirements. You can
 make aninformed decision foryour team.
 Once your group health insurance plan is
 active, the policy coverage starts from day1
 with0 waiting period.
 Switch toPazcare fora seamless insurance
 experience!
 pozcare